# 0.9.3 to 0.9.1
This page provides guidance in migrating a codebase using Aerie 0.9.0 to Aerie 0.9.1. See the [Aerie 0.9.1 Release Report](https://wiki.jpl.nasa.gov/display/MPSA/Aerie+0.9.1+Release+Report) for a high-level list of changes in Aerie 0.9.1.

## Migrating tests
The `MerlinExtension` JUnit test extension has been updated to support updates to internal adaptation instantiation logic. Any tests that spawn activity instances must be updated. These changes are mostly syntactical from a test writer's point of view.

In order to make use of a JUnit extension the extension must be registered with JUnit.
Previously, all tests required just a class-level `@ExtendWith(MerlinExtension.class)` annotation. Now, tests that involve spawning activities (e.g. within a `spawn()` call) must use the field-level `RegisterExtension` annotation. Tests that do not involve activities can continue using the `@ExtendWith` annotation.

Additionally, the MerlinExtension now requires test classes to be annotated with `@TestInstance(Lifecycle.PER_CLASS)`. The extension will immediately fail any test classes without this annotation, so once other migrations have been completed, it is safe to run tests and fix any classes which fail due to an improper test lifecycle.

To update test classes with tests that spawn activities:

1. Remove the `@ExtendWith(MerlinExtension.class)` annotation from any affected test class.

2. Add this annotated field to any affected test class -- replacing `Mission` with your mission's top-level model as necessary.
   ```java
   @RegisterExtension
   public static final MerlinExtension<Mission> ext = new MerlinExtension<>();
   ```

3. Any `Registrar registrar` parameter used in a test class constructor must be replaced by a `MerlinTestContext<Mission> ctx` parameter.

   The `MerlinTestContext<Mission>` parameter handles mission model and activity type registration to ensure the test extension has knowledge of the mission model and activities being used.

4. Replace invocations of `ActivityTypes.register` (e.g. `ActivityTypes.register(registrar, this.model)`) with invocations of `ctx.use` (e.g. `ctx.use(model, ActivityTypes.activityTypes)`).

5. Replace other uses of `registrar` with `ctx.registrar()`.

### Comparison betwen 0.9.0 and 0.9.1

In 0.9.0:
```java
@ExtendWith(MerlinExtension.class)
public final class FooActivityTest {
  private final Mission model;

  public FooActivityTest(final Registrar registrar) {
    this.model = new Mission(registrar, new Configuration());
    ActivityTypes.register(registrar, this.model);
  }

  @Test
  public void testActivity() {
    spawn(...);
  }
}
```

In 0.9.1:
```java
@TestInstance(Lifecycle.PER_CLASS)
public final class FooActivityTest {
  @RegisterExtension
  public static final MerlinExtension<Mission> ext = new MerlinExtension<>();

  private final Mission model;

  public FooActivityTest(final MerlinTestContext<Mission> ctx) {
    this.model = new Mission(ctx.registrar(), new Configuration());
    ctx.use(model, ActivityTypes.activityTypes);
  }

  @Test
  public void testActivity() {
    spawn(...);
  }
}