deployment/Environment.md, before:

# Environment

This document provides detailed information about environment variables for each service in Aerie.

- [Aerie Gateway](#aerie-gateway)
- [Aerie UI](#aerie-ui)
- [Hasura](#hasura)
- [Merlin](#merlin)
- [Postgres](#postgres)
- [Scheduler](#scheduler)

## Aerie Gateway

| Name                          | Description                                    | Type     | Default                          |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `GQL_API_URL`                 | URL of GraphQL API for the GraphQL Playground. | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `PORT`                        | Port the Gateway server listens on.            | `number` | 9000                             |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_MERLIN_DB`    | Name of Merlin Postgres database.              | `string` | aerie_merlin                     |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_SCHEDULER_DB` | Name of scheduler Postgres database.           | `string` | aerie_scheduler                  |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_UI_DB`        | Name of UI Postgres database.                  | `string` | aerie_ui                         |
| `POSTGRES_HOST`               | Hostname of Postgres instance.                 | `string` | localhost                        |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`           | Password of Postgres instance.                 | `string` | aerie                            |
| `POSTGRES_PORT`               | Port of Postgres instance.                     | `number` | 5432                             |
| `POSTGRES_USER`               | User of Postgres instance.                     | `string` | aerie                            |

## Aerie UI

| Name                   | Description                                                                    | Type     | Default                          |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `GATEWAY_CLIENT_URL`   | Url of the Gateway as called from the client (i.e. web browser)                | `string` | http://localhost:9000            |
| `GATEWAY_SERVER_URL`   | Url of the Gateway as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container)          | `string` | http://localhost:9000            |
| `HASURA_CLIENT_URL`    | Url of Hasura as called from the client (i.e. web browser)                     | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `HASURA_SERVER_URL`    | Url of Hasura as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container)               | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `SCHEDULER_CLIENT_URL` | Url of the scheduler server as called from the client (i.e. web browser)       | `string` | http://localhost:27193           |
| `SCHEDULER_SERVER_URL` | Url of the scheduler server as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container) | `string` | http://localhost:27193           |

## Hasura

| Name                           | Description                             | Type     | Default                                              |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `AERIE_MERLIN_DATABASE_URL`    | Url of the Merlin Postgres database.    | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_merlin    |
| `AERIE_SCHEDULER_DATABASE_URL` | Url of the scheduler Postgres database. | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_scheduler |
| `AERIE_UI_DATABASE_URL`        | Url of the UI Postgres database         | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_ui        |

Additionally, Hasura provides documentation on it's own environment variables you can use to fine-tune your deployment:

1. [graphql-engine](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/reference.html#server-flag-reference)
1. [metadata and migrations](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/migrations/advanced/auto-apply-migrations.html#applying-migrations)

## Merlin

| Name                 | Description                                               | Type     | Default                        |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `MERLIN_PORT`        | Port number for the Merlin server                         | `number` | 27183                          |
| `MERLIN_LOCAL_STORE` | Local storage for Merlin in the container                 | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store |
| `MERLIN_LOGGING`     | Whether or not you want Javalin to log server information | `string` | true                           |
| `MERLIN_DB_SERVER`   | The DB instance that Merlin will connect with             | `string` | postgres                       |
| `MERLIN_DB_PORT`     | The DB instance port number that Merlin will connect with | `number` | 5432                           |
| `MERLIN_DB_USER`     | Username of the DB instance                               | `string` | aerie                          |
| `MERLIN_DB_PASSWORD` | Password of the DB instance                               | `string` | aerie                          |
| `MERLIN_DB`          | The DB for Merlin.                                        | `string` | aerie_merlin                   |

## Postgres

The default Aerie deployment uses the default Postgres environment. See the [Docker Postgres documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) for more complete information on those environment variables and how to use them.

## Scheduler

| Name                    | Description                                                           | Type     | Default                                            |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `MERLIN_GRAPHQL_URL`    | URI of the Merlin graphql interface to call                           | `string` | http://hasura:8080/v1/graphql                      |
| `MERLIN_LOCAL_STORE`    | Local storage for Merlin in the container (for backdoor jar access)   | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store                     |
| `SCHEDULER_DB`          | The DB for scheduler                                                  | `string` | aerie_scheduler                                    |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_PASSWORD` | Password of the DB instance                                           | `string` | aerie                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_PORT`     | The DB instance port number that scheduler will connect with          | `number` | 5432                                               |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_SERVER`   | The DB instance that scheduler will connect with                      | `string` | postgres                                           |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_USER`     | Username of the DB instance                                           | `string` | aerie                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_LOCAL_STORE` | Local storage for scheduler in the container                          | `string` | /usr/src/app/scheduler_file_store                  |
| `SCHEDULER_LOGGING`     | Whether or not you want Javalin to log server information             | `string` | true                                               |
| `SCHEDULER_OUTPUT_MODE` | how scheduler output is sent back to aerie                            | `string` | UpdateInputPlanWithNewActivities                   |
| `SCHEDULER_PORT`        | Port number for the scheduler server                                  | `number` | 27193                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_RULES_JAR`   | Jar file to load scheduling rules from (until user input to database) | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store/scheduler_rules.jar |

Commit message:

Update logging documentation for merlin

deployment/Environment.md, after:

# Environment

This document provides detailed information about environment variables for each service in Aerie.

- [Aerie Gateway](#aerie-gateway)
- [Aerie UI](#aerie-ui)
- [Hasura](#hasura)
- [Merlin](#merlin)
- [Postgres](#postgres)
- [Scheduler](#scheduler)

## Aerie Gateway

| Name                          | Description                                    | Type     | Default                          |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `GQL_API_URL`                 | URL of GraphQL API for the GraphQL Playground. | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `PORT`                        | Port the Gateway server listens on.            | `number` | 9000                             |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_MERLIN_DB`    | Name of Merlin Postgres database.              | `string` | aerie_merlin                     |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_SCHEDULER_DB` | Name of scheduler Postgres database.           | `string` | aerie_scheduler                  |
| `POSTGRES_AERIE_UI_DB`        | Name of UI Postgres database.                  | `string` | aerie_ui                         |
| `POSTGRES_HOST`               | Hostname of Postgres instance.                 | `string` | localhost                        |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`           | Password of Postgres instance.                 | `string` | aerie                            |
| `POSTGRES_PORT`               | Port of Postgres instance.                     | `number` | 5432                             |
| `POSTGRES_USER`               | User of Postgres instance.                     | `string` | aerie                            |

## Aerie UI

| Name                   | Description                                                                    | Type     | Default                          |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `GATEWAY_CLIENT_URL`   | Url of the Gateway as called from the client (i.e. web browser)                | `string` | http://localhost:9000            |
| `GATEWAY_SERVER_URL`   | Url of the Gateway as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container)          | `string` | http://localhost:9000            |
| `HASURA_CLIENT_URL`    | Url of Hasura as called from the client (i.e. web browser)                     | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `HASURA_SERVER_URL`    | Url of Hasura as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container)               | `string` | http://localhost:8080/v1/graphql |
| `SCHEDULER_CLIENT_URL` | Url of the scheduler server as called from the client (i.e. web browser)       | `string` | http://localhost:27193           |
| `SCHEDULER_SERVER_URL` | Url of the scheduler server as called from the server (i.e. Node.js container) | `string` | http://localhost:27193           |

## Hasura

| Name                           | Description                             | Type     | Default                                              |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `AERIE_MERLIN_DATABASE_URL`    | Url of the Merlin Postgres database.    | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_merlin    |
| `AERIE_SCHEDULER_DATABASE_URL` | Url of the scheduler Postgres database. | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_scheduler |
| `AERIE_UI_DATABASE_URL`        | Url of the UI Postgres database         | `string` | postgres://aerie:aerie@postgres:5432/aerie_ui        |

Additionally, Hasura provides documentation on it's own environment variables you can use to fine-tune your deployment:

1. [graphql-engine](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/deployment/graphql-engine-flags/reference.html#server-flag-reference)
1. [metadata and migrations](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/migrations/advanced/auto-apply-migrations.html#applying-migrations)

## Merlin

| Name                 | Description                                               | Type     | Default                        |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------| -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `MERLIN_PORT`        | Port number for the Merlin server                         | `number` | 27183                          |
| `MERLIN_LOCAL_STORE` | Local storage for Merlin in the container                 | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store |
| `MERLIN_DB_SERVER`   | The DB instance that Merlin will connect with             | `string` | postgres                       |
| `MERLIN_DB_PORT`     | The DB instance port number that Merlin will connect with | `number` | 5432                           |
| `MERLIN_DB_USER`     | Username of the DB instance                               | `string` | aerie                          |
| `MERLIN_DB_PASSWORD` | Password of the DB instance                               | `string` | aerie                          |
| `MERLIN_DB`          | The DB for Merlin.                                        | `string` | aerie_merlin                   |
| `JAVA_OPTS`          | Configuration for Merlin's logging level and output file  | `string` | aerie_merlin                   |

## Postgres

The default Aerie deployment uses the default Postgres environment. See the [Docker Postgres documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) for more complete information on those environment variables and how to use them.

## Scheduler

| Name                    | Description                                                           | Type     | Default                                            |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `MERLIN_GRAPHQL_URL`    | URI of the Merlin graphql interface to call                           | `string` | http://hasura:8080/v1/graphql                      |
| `MERLIN_LOCAL_STORE`    | Local storage for Merlin in the container (for backdoor jar access)   | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store                     |
| `SCHEDULER_DB`          | The DB for scheduler                                                  | `string` | aerie_scheduler                                    |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_PASSWORD` | Password of the DB instance                                           | `string` | aerie                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_PORT`     | The DB instance port number that scheduler will connect with          | `number` | 5432                                               |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_SERVER`   | The DB instance that scheduler will connect with                      | `string` | postgres                                           |
| `SCHEDULER_DB_USER`     | Username of the DB instance                                           | `string` | aerie                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_LOCAL_STORE` | Local storage for scheduler in the container                          | `string` | /usr/src/app/scheduler_file_store                  |
| `SCHEDULER_LOGGING`     | Whether or not you want Javalin to log server information             | `string` | true                                               |
| `SCHEDULER_OUTPUT_MODE` | how scheduler output is sent back to aerie                            | `string` | UpdateInputPlanWithNewActivities                   |
| `SCHEDULER_PORT`        | Port number for the scheduler server                                  | `number` | 27193                                              |
| `SCHEDULER_RULES_JAR`   | Jar file to load scheduling rules from (until user input to database) | `string` | /usr/src/app/merlin_file_store/scheduler_rules.jar |
