docs/source/contribute/documentation/examples/index.rst, before:

:orphan:

Examples
========

This documentation covers the markup convention used for Scylla Docs.

Our official documentation is written in restructuredText.
If you are not familiar with restructuredText, refer to `this cheat sheet <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_.
Keep in mind, that in this cheat sheet there may be directives or elements of the markup we're not using.

In general, the main components to the markup of any document include:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   admonitions
   collapse
   code-blocks
   glossary
   headings
   hero-box
   includes
   images
   links
   lists
   panel-box
   substitutions
   tables
   tabs
   text
   toc
   topic-box
   versions

.. panel-box::
  :title: Components
  :id: "components"
  :class: my-panel

  * :doc:`Admonitions <admonitions>`
  * :doc:`Collapse <collapse>`
  * :doc:`Code blocks <code-blocks>`
  * :doc:`Glossary <glossary>`
  * :doc:`Headings <headings>`
  * :doc:`Hero box <hero-box>`
  * :doc:`Images <images>`
  * :doc:`Includes <includes>`
  * :doc:`Links <links>`
  * :doc:`Lists <lists>`
  * :doc:`Panel box <panel-box>`
  * :doc:`Substitutions <substitutions>`
  * :doc:`Tables <tables>`
  * :doc:`Tabs <tabs>`
  * :doc:`Text <text>`
  * :doc:`Table of Contents (TOC) <toc>`
  * :doc:`Topic box <topic-box>`
  * :doc:`Versions <versions>`

Commit message:

Include MD link on Examples/index.rst
* Also removes a reference to Scylla

docs/source/contribute/documentation/examples/index.rst, after:

Examples
========

This documentation covers the markup convention used for the Aerie Docs.

Our official documentation is written in a mixture of restructuredText and Markdown.
If you are not familiar with restructuredText, refer to `this cheat sheet <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`__.
If you are not familiar with Markdown, refer to `this guide <https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/syntax.html#syntax-core>`__.
If you're familiar with MD, and want a quick overview of the differences between it and RST, see `this website <https://docs.open-mpi.org/en/v5.0.x/developers/rst-for-markdown-expats.html>`__.
Keep in mind, that in this cheat sheet there may be directives or elements of the markup we're not using.

In general, the main components to the markup of any document include:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   admonitions
   collapse
   code-blocks
   glossary
   headings
   hero-box
   includes
   images
   links
   lists
   panel-box
   substitutions
   tables
   tabs
   text
   toc
   topic-box
   versions

.. panel-box::
  :title: Components
  :id: "components"
  :class: my-panel

  * :doc:`Admonitions <admonitions>`
  * :doc:`Collapse <collapse>`
  * :doc:`Code blocks <code-blocks>`
  * :doc:`Glossary <glossary>`
  * :doc:`Headings <headings>`
  * :doc:`Hero box <hero-box>`
  * :doc:`Images <images>`
  * :doc:`Includes <includes>`
  * :doc:`Links <links>`
  * :doc:`Lists <lists>`
  * :doc:`Panel box <panel-box>`
  * :doc:`Substitutions <substitutions>`
  * :doc:`Tables <tables>`
  * :doc:`Tabs <tabs>`
  * :doc:`Text <text>`
  * :doc:`Table of Contents (TOC) <toc>`
  * :doc:`Topic box <topic-box>`
  * :doc:`Versions <versions>`
