docs/DEVELOPER.md, before:

# Developer

This document describes how to set up your development environment to build and develop Aerie.

- [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
- [Code Editor](#code-editor)
- [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
- [Building](#building)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Dependency Updates](#dependency-updates)
- [Environment](#environment)
- [Start Aerie](#start-aerie)
- [Stop Aerie](#stop-aerie)
- [Remove Docker Images](#remove-docker-images)
- [Remove Docker Volumes](#remove-docker-volumes)
- [Entering a Docker Container](#entering-a-docker-container)

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can run Aerie you must install and configure the following products on your development machine:

- [Git](http://git-scm.com) and/or the [GitHub app](https://desktop.github.com/); [GitHub's Guide to Installing Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source of information.

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) which is used to run the Aerie services.

- [OpenJDK Temurin LTS](https://adoptium.net/temurin/) which is used to build the Java-based Aerie services. If you're on OSX you can use [brew](https://brew.sh/):

  ```sh
  brew install --cask temurin
  ```

  Make sure you update your `JAVA_HOME` environment variable. For example with [Zsh](https://www.zsh.org/) you can set your `.zshrc` to:

  ```sh
  export JAVA_HOME="/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/temurin-19.jdk/Contents/Home"
  ```

- [Gradle](https://gradle.org) which is used to build Aerie. If you're on OSX you can use brew:

  ```sh
  brew install gradle
  ```

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) which is used for testing the database. You do not need this normally since Aerie runs Postgres in a Docker container for development, and you only need it for the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command-line tool. **Do not** run the Postgres service locally or it will clash with the Docker container version. If you're on OSX you can use brew:

  ```sh
  brew install postgresql
  ```

## Code Editor

If you use [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/), you can import the Aerie repository into IntelliJ as a Gradle project. No additional configuration is required.

## Getting the Sources

[Clone](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the Aerie repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/NASA-AMMOS/aerie.git
cd aerie
```

## Building

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew assemble
```

## Testing

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew test
```

## Dependency Updates

Use the following task to print a report of the dependencies that have updates available.

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew dependencyUpdates
```

## Environment

To run the Aerie services you need to first set the proper environment variables. First copy the template:

```sh
cd aerie
cp .env.template .env
```

Fill out the `.env` file with the following default environment variables (note you should not use these values in production):

```sh
AERIE_PASSWORD=aerie
AERIE_USERNAME=aerie
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
```

## Start Aerie

The [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) in the root directory deploys Aerie locally, creating containers using the artifacts from the build step above.

```sh
cd aerie
docker-compose up --build --detach
```

## Stop Aerie

```sh
cd aerie
docker compose down
```

## Remove Docker Images

Removing a docker image from your local cache forces Docker to either rebuild it or fetch it from a repository (e.g. DockerHub or GitHub Packages).

```sh
docker rmi [image name or image id]
```

## Remove Docker Volumes

Sometimes it's necessary to clear the contents of file system volumes mounted by Docker. For Aerie this could be needing
to start with a clean install and wanting to delete the database contents, mission model jars, and mission simulation
data files.

First ensure [all containers are down](#stop-aerie). Only once containers are down you can run volume
pruning operation:

```sh
docker volume prune
```

## Entering a Docker Container

At times it is helpful to enter a docker container and inspect the filesystem or run CLI utilities such as
[psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) or [hasura-cli](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/hasura-cli/commands/index/). For example a shell can be initialized in the Postgres container with:

```sh
docker exec -it aerie-postgres /bin/sh
```

Commit message:

Update developer doc
* Remove gradle prereq since we use gradle wrapper
* Add instructions for viewing Aerie UI or Hasura Console after start

docs/DEVELOPER.md, after:

# Developer

This document describes how to set up your development environment to build and develop Aerie.

- [Prerequisite Software](#prerequisite-software)
- [Code Editor](#code-editor)
- [Getting the Sources](#getting-the-sources)
- [Building](#building)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Dependency Updates](#dependency-updates)
- [Environment](#environment)
- [Start Aerie](#start-aerie)
- [Stop Aerie](#stop-aerie)
- [Remove Docker Images](#remove-docker-images)
- [Remove Docker Volumes](#remove-docker-volumes)
- [Entering a Docker Container](#entering-a-docker-container)

## Prerequisite Software

Before you can run Aerie you must install and configure the following products on your development machine:

- [Git](http://git-scm.com) and/or the [GitHub app](https://desktop.github.com/); [GitHub's Guide to Installing Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git) is a good source of information.

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) which is used to run the Aerie services.

- [OpenJDK Temurin LTS](https://adoptium.net/temurin/) which is used to build the Java-based Aerie services. If you're on OSX you can use [brew](https://brew.sh/):

  ```sh
  brew install --cask temurin
  ```

  Make sure you update your `JAVA_HOME` environment variable. For example with [Zsh](https://www.zsh.org/) you can set your `.zshrc` to:

  ```sh
  export JAVA_HOME="/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/temurin-19.jdk/Contents/Home"
  ```

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) which is used for testing the database. You do not need this normally since Aerie runs Postgres in a Docker container for development, and you only need it for the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) command-line tool. **Do not run the Postgres service locally** or it will clash with the Aerie Postgres Docker container. If you're on OSX you can use brew:

  ```sh
  brew install postgresql
  ```

## Code Editor

If you use [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/), you can import the Aerie repository into IntelliJ as a Gradle project. No additional configuration is required.

## Getting the Sources

[Clone](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the Aerie repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/NASA-AMMOS/aerie.git
cd aerie
```

## Building

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew assemble
```

## Testing

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew test
```

## Dependency Updates

Use the following task to print a report of the dependencies that have updates available.

```sh
cd aerie
./gradlew dependencyUpdates
```

## Environment

To run the Aerie services you need to first set the proper environment variables. First copy the template:

```sh
cd aerie
cp .env.template .env
```

Fill out the `.env` file with the following default environment variables (note you should not use these values in production):

```sh
AERIE_PASSWORD=aerie
AERIE_USERNAME=aerie
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
```

## Start Aerie

The [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) in the root directory deploys Aerie locally, creating containers using the artifacts from the build step above.

```sh
cd aerie
docker-compose up --build --detach
```

Once Aerie is started you can visit [http://localhost](http://localhost) to view the [Aerie UI](https://github.com/NASA-AMMOS/aerie-ui). You can visit [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) to view the [Hasura Console](https://hasura.io/).

## Stop Aerie

```sh
cd aerie
docker compose down
```

## Remove Docker Images

Removing a docker image from your local cache forces Docker to either rebuild it or fetch it from a repository (e.g. DockerHub or GitHub Packages).

```sh
docker rmi [image name or image id]
```

## Remove Docker Volumes

Sometimes it's necessary to clear the contents of file system volumes mounted by Docker. For Aerie this could be needing
to start with a clean install and wanting to delete the database contents, mission model jars, and mission simulation
data files.

First ensure [all containers are down](#stop-aerie). Only once containers are down you can run volume
pruning operation:

```sh
docker volume prune
```

## Entering a Docker Container

At times it is helpful to enter a docker container and inspect the filesystem or run CLI utilities such as
[psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) or [hasura-cli](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/hasura-cli/commands/index/). For example a shell can be initialized in the Postgres container with:

```sh
docker exec -it aerie-postgres /bin/sh
```
